# 6.2 - Code Style - Comments and Docstrings

| File Version | Project Version | Created On | Modified On |
|:--|:--|:--|:--|
| 0.0.0 | 0.0.0 | 08/16/2022 | 08/16/2022

Code should be thouroughly documented. The **Narcotics Tracker** documentation will be handled by [Sphinx](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/) which will pull correctly formatted Docstrings right from the `.py` files.

{{TOC}}

## 6.2.1 - Docstrings

##### Docstrings vs. Comments
Docstrings are used for documenting the code. They should be used for all packages, modules, classes, and functions. They should be descriptive and elabaorate enough to provide an understanding of how to use the features without reading the code itself.

Comments should be used to explain tricky parts of the code. Theys should be used sparingly. If code requires excessive commenting there look for opportunites to refactor it into a more understandable format. Comments do not get pulled into the documentation via Sphinx.

### 6.2.2 - General

All packages, modules, classess, and functions should have docstrings.

Docstrings are written using `”””Triple Double Quotes”""`. 

Single-line docstrings should fit within the 80 character line limit. They should be non-descriptive and follow a ‘Does this, returns that’ structure. 

Multi-Line Docstrings start on the same line as the opening quotes. They should be structured with a short (fits on one line) non-descriptive summary using the ‘Does this, returns that’ structure, followed by a blank line, and then a descriptive explanation; The closing quotes should be on their own line.



###  6.2.3 - Formatting
The preferred formatting style for docstrings for the **Narcotics Tracker** is the Google Style

##### Example
```python
class SampleClass:
    """Summary of class here.

    Longer class information...
    Longer class information...

    Attributes:
        likes_spam: A boolean indicating if we like SPAM or not.
        eggs: An integer count of the eggs we have laid.
    """

    def __init__(self, likes_spam: bool = False):
        """Inits SampleClass with blah."""
        self.likes_spam = likes_spam
        self.eggs = 0

    def public_method(self):
        """Performs operation blah."""
```

### 6.2.4 - Docstrings for Packages

Docstrings for python packages should be placed at the top of the `__init__.py` file. 

They should give an overview of the packages purpose and list the modules and sub-packages exported by the package.

### 6.2.5 - Docstrings for Modules
Docstrings for python modules should be place at the top of the `.py` file.

They should describe the purpose and behaviors of the module and list the publicly accessible classes exported by the module.

Docstrings should not explain how behaviors are implemented, but should be descriptive enough to give a user or developer what they need to use and work with them.

##### Example
```python
"""A one line summary of the module or program, terminated by a period.

Leave one blank line.  The rest of this docstring should contain an
overall description of the module or program.  It should also
contain a brief description of exported classes and functions. Optionally it may contain usage examples.

  Typical usage example:

  foo = ClassFoo()
  bar = foo.FunctionBar()
"""
```

### 6.2.6 - Docstrings for Classes

Docstrings for classes should immediately follow the class definition.

Docstrings for classes should summarize the class’s behavior and list its public methods and attributes as well as any other public variables.

The class’ `__init__` method should be documented in its docstring. Other methods are documented in their own docstring.

Any inherited behaviors should have a short explanation and point to the file they are inherited from.

Any methods which replace the functionality of a superclass should contain the word “override” in its description.

Any methods which add functionality to inherited behavior should contain the word “extend” in its description.

##### Example
```python
class SampleClass:
    """Summary of class here.

    Longer class information...
    Longer class information...

    Attributes:
        likes_spam: A boolean indicating if we like SPAM or not.
        eggs: An integer count of the eggs we have laid.
    """

    def __init__(self, likes_spam: bool = False):
        """Inits SampleClass with blah."""
        self.likes_spam = likes_spam
        self.eggs = 0

    def public_method(self):
        """Performs operation blah."""
```

### 6.2.7 - Docstrings for Functions (and Methods)

Docstrings for functions should immediately follow its definition. Docstrings for functions can be omitted if the function is not externally visible, is very short and it’s functionality is obvious.

Docstrings for functions should summarize it’s behavior. Separate sections should be used to document the functions arguments, return values, side effects and exceptions raised. If there are restrictions on when the function can be called these should be listed.

After reading a function’s docstring the reader should be able to write a call to that function without reading the code.

##### Example
```python
def fetch_smalltable_rows(table_handle: smalltable.Table,
                          keys: Sequence[Union[bytes, str]],
                          require_all_keys: bool = False,
) -> Mapping[bytes, tuple[str, ...]]:
    """Fetches rows from a Smalltable.

    Retrieves rows pertaining to the given keys from the Table instance
    represented by table_handle.  String keys will be UTF-8 encoded.

    Args:
        table_handle: An open smalltable.Table instance.
        keys: A sequence of strings representing the key of each table
          row to fetch.  String keys will be UTF-8 encoded.
        require_all_keys: If True only rows with values set for all keys will be
          returned.

    Returns:
        A dict mapping keys to the corresponding table row data
        fetched. Each row is represented as a tuple of strings. For
        example:

        {b'Serak': ('Rigel VII', 'Preparer'),
         b'Zim': ('Irk', 'Invader'),
         b'Lrrr': ('Omicron Persei 8', 'Emperor')}

        Returned keys are always bytes.  If a key from the keys argument is
        missing from the dictionary, then that row was not found in the
        table (and require_all_keys must have been False).

    Raises:
        IOError: An error occurred accessing the smalltable.
    """
```

## 6.2.8 - Comments

Place comments in tricky parts of the code. If it would require an explanation during a code review, comment it. 

Comments should be written using `#` at the beginning of each line.

Long explanations can be placed on multiple lines. They should come before the code which they are explaining. Short, simple comments can come at the end of the line they refer to, use two spaces before the `#` for readability.

There is no need to describe the code using comments. Assume the reader understands python better than you or has the resources to learn.

Excessive commenting can be a sign of poorly written code. Consider refactoring and using more descriptive names (see section 6.1 Naming) to allow the code to describe itself.
