# 6.1 - Code Style - Naming

| File Version | Project Version | Created On | Modified On |
|:--|:--|:--|:--|
| 0.0.0 | 0.0.0 | 08/15/2022 | 08/15/2022

Naming items in code is important when it comes to readability. Care should be taken to choose names which help the reader understand what the item’s purpose or function is.

Naming can be difficult and may change over various iterations of the codebase. As better names occur replace less descriptive names.

{{TOC}}

## 6.1.1 - Packages and Module Names
Modules names should use `snake_case`.

Package names should use `lowercase` names and avoid the use of underscores.

## 6.1.2 - Class Names

Class names should describe the objects they create (or their general purpose if they are a static class) and should contain a **noun**. (i.e. `Medication`, `Container`)

Class names should use the `CapWords` style.

## 6.1.3 - Function (and Method) Names
Functions which perform tasks and operations. Functions have names which contain a **verb** to make them immediately identifiable (i.e. `calculate_concentration()`).

Functions which only return a value like a boolean can use short phrases with adjectives for their name (i.e. `created_date_is_none()`).

Function names should be specific but they can use the context from which they are called to assist their name (i.e. `create()` is a bad name but `Medication.create()` is acceptable if the function is always called using this structure).

Function names shoud use the `snake_case` style. 

### Names: Use This Not That
| Use | Instead Of |
|:--|:--|
| return | get; fetch |
|  |  |

## 6.1.4 - Variable and Property Names
Variables and properties hold data. Their names should describe the kind of data being stored and contain a **noun**. (i.e. `fentanyl.dose`)

Variables which contain a boolean value can use short phrases with an **adjective** as their name. (i.e. `medicaion_status_is_active`)

Variables should use the `snake_case` style with an exception made for *constants* which should use the `UPPERCASE_WITH_UNDERSCORES` style.
